Yesterday, as every last Wednesday of a month, I participated in #parisjs meet-up. The event was hosted by Eyrolles - a library+editor in the very center of Paris. Thanks to them we have got a big lecture hall, so we were many to participate.

This time the subjects varied greatly. Here's a brief summary:


####Js_of_ocaml

Fabrice Le Fessant talked about Js_of_ocaml (http://ocsigen.org/js_of_ocaml/manual/). It is a subset of Ocsigen, that's used to generate JS code using OCaml bytecode program. A rather complete API for JavaScript objects is available and the live demo was working great (a browser OCaml interpreter run by JavaScript generated with Js_of_ocaml: http://try.ocamlpro.com/).

The idea fits into the recent movement of building an abstraction over JavaScript (CoffeeScript) but I'm not sure if it will be tempting for any JavaScript developer. On the other hand, I think that it's a good thing, that can bring OCaml and JS communities closer.


####HTML 5 Games

There's not ParisJS without a talk about HTML 5 Games. This time it was Pierre-Loïc Doulcet (@hexapode) who shared his experience as professor in Game Design and Programming School. The talk contained a little summary about current technologies, upcoming implementations and W3C drafts as well as some examples of his own works, works of his students. At the end we saw some techniques, mainly optimization, that were the result of his experience.

The advantage of this talk was that it was interesting not only for game developers. The summary of W3C drafts and browser implementation progress was very interesting and shows where are we on our way to Web 3.0. The games highlights show how much can be already achieved with JS and may incite some new developer to try it out.

You can find the slides here: http://pierreloicdoulcet.fr/parisjs/#/


####Backbone tutorial in 10 minutes

Sylvain Zimmer made a short live coding tutorial with Backbone. The tutorial covered the very basics (View, Model, Router) and was a good introduction for anyone who has not yet used this framework (like me).


####Node.js streams

For a Node.js presentation, this time we had François de Metz(@francois2metz) talking about streams. To summarize - in Node.js almost everything is a stream. A simple pipe function lets us direct the flow between sockets, files and web queries, easily achieving some tedious tasks. Live examples included a chat application or saving a website to disk.

Although I'm not a big fan of Node.js, this talk was very simple presentation of a very powerful feature and I liked it a lot. I'll certainly take a closer look at it.

Slides: http://francois2metz.github.com/showoff-nodestreams/#1


####Web vs. WebApp vs. HybridApp

David Thevenin @d_thevenin gave us his feedback about the principal differences between website, WebApp and HybridApp developement. He highlighted the main differences between those environments from user's and developer's points of view. The summary is: "No, you can't write one single JS application that will automagically work anywhere".

I think that this talk was the most important on this edition of ParisJS. Many of it's points should be considered when choosing a technology for each application and it reminds us that there is no golden hammer (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_the_instrument). It's not necessarily saying that JS should not be used for mobile app development, it's rather telling us what risks should we be aware of.


####tQuery Augmented Gestures

The last talk was a brief presentation by Jerome Etienne about tQuery Augmented Gestures. It's a new and creative way of using the browser webcam API. In short - the AugmentedGestures plugin allows you to interact with the browser by analyzing the image. Two "pointers" held in hands are captured by the webcam, and you can use their movements in your JS application. For a demo Jerome show us how to punch a dummy, pretty much like in WiiSports Boxing.

The technology seems very promising. I'm looking forward for some "serious" implementations, especially on the accessibility level.

Slides: http://jeromeetienne.github.com/slides/augmentedgesture.web5/


That's all for this meet-up. I'll try to add the other slides as soon as they're online!
